www.ijpcr.comAvailable online at International Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research 2017; 9: 218-220 ISSN 1556 Research Article *Author for Correspondence: consolacion.ragasa@dlsu.edu.ph Triterpene and Sterols from Premna nauseosa Blanco Phelan G Apostol,, Mark Anthony G Fran,4, Chien-Chang Shen, Consolacion Y Ragasa,6 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, Philippines 2Food and Drug Administration, Civic Drive, Filinvest Corporate City, Alabang, Muntinlupa City 1781, Philippines 3The Graduate School, Thomas Aquinas Research Complex TARC Bldg., University of Santo Tomas, Espana Blvd., Sampaloc, Manila City 1008, Philippines 4College of Science, Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila Gen.

Luna cor.

Muralla St., Intramuros Manila 1002, Philippines.

National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, Ministry of Health and Welfare, 155-1, Li Nong St., Sec. , Taipei 112, Taiwan 6Chemistry Department, De La Salle University Science and Technology Complex Leandro V. Locsin Campus, Binan City, Laguna 4024, Philippines Available Online: 25th March, 2017.

Chemical investigation of the dichloromethane extract of Premna nauseosa Blanco afforded squalene and a mixture of beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol in about 6:1 ratio.

The structures of squalene, beta-sitosterol, were identified by comparison of their NMR data with literature data.

Keywords: Premna nauseosa Blanco, Verbenaceae, squalene, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol..

Premna nauseosa of the family Verbenaceae, commonly known as alagau-gubat is an endemic Philippine plant found in low altitude places in Luzon, Philippines.

The leaves of Premna nauseosa are said to be a cure for stomach problems.

There are no reported studies on the chemical constituents of Premna nauseosa.

In an earlier study, the leaf crude ethanolic extract of Premna nauseosa exhibited an IC50 value of 12.06 g/mL when tested in vitro on colorectal carcinoma (HCT-116) using the MTT assay.

Furthermore, the ethanolic extract possessed 78% free radical scavenging activity based on DPPH assay.

In this study, the dichloromethane extract of Premna nauseosa leaves yielded squalene and a mixture of beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol .

The structures of squalene, beta-sitosterol, are presented in Fig..

This is the first report on the isolation of these compounds from Premna nauseosa.

MATERIALS AND METHODS General Experimental Procedure NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian VNMRS spectrometer in CDCl at 600 MHz for 1H NMR and 150 MHz for 13C NMR spectra.

Column chromatography was performed with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh).

Thin layer chromatography was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254 and the plates were visualized by spraying with vanillin/H2SO4 solution followed by warming.

Sample Collection The leaves of Premna nauseosa Blanco were collected from Brgy Tulay, Odiongan, Romblon, Philippines in January 2016.

The samples were authenticated at the Botany Division, Philippine National Museum.

General Isolation Procedure A glass column 12 inches in height and 0.5 inch internal diameter was used for the chromatography.

The crude extracts were fractionated by silica gel chromatography using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 at 10% increment by volume as eluents.

Five milliliter fractions were collected.

All fractions were monitored by thin layer chromatography.

Fractions with spots of the same Rf values were combined and rechromatographed in appropriate solvent systems until TLC pure isolates were obtained.

Final purifications were conducted using Pasteur pipettes as columns.

One milliliter fractions were collected.

Isolation of the Chemical Constituents from the Leaves of Premna nauseosa.

The air-dried Premna nauseosa leaves (298.6 g) were ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for stigmasterol, days and then filtered.

The solvent was evaporated under vacuum to afford a crude extract stigmasterol, 8 g) which was chromatographed using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 at 10% increment by volume.

The CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed using petroleum ether to afford squalene, (4 mg).

The 30% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed using 10% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

Fractions collected from this column were combined and rechromatographed using 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether Phelan et al. / Triterpene and Sterols IJPCR, Volume 9, Issue 3: March 2017 Page 219 Figure 1: Chemical structures of squalene , betasitosterol and stigmasterol from Premna nauseosa to yield a mixture of beta-sitosterol, and stigmasterol, (5 mg) after washing with petroleum ether..

Silica gel chromatography of the dichlorometnahe extract of the leaves of Premna nauseosa afforded squalene , betasitosterol and stigmasterol .

The NMR spectra of squalene, are in accordance with data reported in the literature for squalene; beta-sitosterol, for beta-sitosterol; and stigmasterol, for stigmasterol.

The 6:1 ratio of the mixture of beta-sitosterol, and stigmasterol, was deduced from the integrations of the 1H NMR resonances for the olefinic protons of beta-sitosterol, at 5.33 (dd, J = squalene, 8, 4. Hz, H-6)4 and stigmasterol, at 5.33 (dd, J = squalene, 8, 4. Hz, H-6), 5.13 (dd, J = 9.0, 15.

Hz, H-22) and 5.00 (dd, J = 9.0, 15.

Hz, H-23)4.

Although no biological tests were conducted on the isolated compounds, a literature search of squalene, beta-sitosterol, revealed that these have diverse bioactivities.

Squalene was reported to significantly suppress colonic ACF formation and crypt multiplicity which strengthened the hypothesis that it possesses chemopreventive activity against colon carcinogenesis.

Squalene showed cardioprotective effect which is related to inhibition of lipid accumulation by its hypolipidemic properties and/or its antioxidant properties.

A recent study reported that tocotrienols, carotenoids, squalene and coenzyme Q10 have antiproliferative effects on breast cancer cells.

The preventive and therapeutic potential of squalene containing compounds on tumor promotion and regression have been reported.

A recent review on the bioactivities of squalene has been provided.

Beta-Sitosterol was observed to have growth inhibitory effects on human breast MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 adenocarcinoma cells.

Beta-Sitosterol was shown to be effective for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Beta-Sitosterol was also reported to attenuate beta-catenin and PCNA expression, as well as quench radical in vitro, making Beta-Sitosterol a potential anticancer drug for colon carcinogenesis.

Beta-Sitosterol can inhibit the expression of NPC1L1 in the enterocytes to reduce intestinal cholesterol uptake.

Beta-Sitosterol was reported to induce apoptosis mediated by the activation of ERK and the downregulation of Akt in MCA-102 murine fibrosarcoma cells.

Stigmasterol shows therapeutic efficacy against Ehrlich ascites carcinoma bearing mice while conferring protection against cancer induced altered physiological conditions.

Stigmasterol lowers plasma cholesterol levels, inhibits intestinal cholesterol and plant sterol absorption, and suppresses hepatic cholesterol and classic bile acid synthesis in Winstar as well as WKY rats.

Other studies reported that stigmasterol showed cytostatic activity against Hep-2 and McCoy cells, markedly inhibited tumour promotion in two stage carcinogenesis experiments, exhibited antimutagenic, topical antiinflammatory, antiosteoarthritic and antioxidant activities..

In an earlier study, the ethanolic extract of Premna nauseosa exhibited high cytotoxic activity against colorectal carcinoma (HCT-116) and free radical scavenging activity based on DPPH assay.

The dichloromethane extract of Premna nauseosa yielded squalene , beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol .

Compounds 15 and 212 were reported to possess chemopreventive activity against colon carcinogenesis, while beta-sitosterol, was also shown to quench radical in vitro.

Thus, squalene, and beta-sitosterol, could contribute to the cytotoxic activity of Premna nauseosa against HCT-116.

Furthermore, beta-sitosterol, could be partly responsible for the free radical scavenging activity of Premna nauseosa..

A research grant from the De La Salle University Science Foundation through the University Research Coordination Office is gratefully acknowledged.