See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/330218492 Triterpenes and Sterols from Leaves of Hoya meliflua Merr ArticleinPharmacognosy Journal January 2019 DOI: 10.5530/pj. .

1.

CITATIONS 0 READS 100 4 authors: Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projects: Natural Products Chemistry View project Graduate School View project Vincent Antonio Santos Ng De La Salle University 50 PUBLICATIONS CITATIONS SEE PROFILE Raymond Malabed De La Salle University 15 PUBLICATIONS CITATIONS SEE PROFILE Fernando Aurigue Philippine Nuclear Research Institute 20 PUBLICATIONS CITATIONS SEE PROFILE Consolacion Ragasa De La Salle University 346 PUBLICATIONS,935 CITATIONS SEE PROFILE All content following this page was uploaded by Raymond Malabed on 17 June 2019.

The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

Pharmacogn J. 2019; 11:48-52 A Multifaceted Journal in the field of Natural Products and Pharmacognosy www.phcogj.com | www.journalonweb.com/pj | www.phcog.net Original Article 48 Pharmacognosy Journal, Vol 11, Issue 1, Jan-Feb, 2019.

Hoya Br is considered the largest genus of flowering plants in the family Apocynaceae.

Commonly called wax plants due to the waxy appearance of their leaves and flowers, most species have ornamental value.

A few have been reported to have medicinal properties or used in traditional medicine.

In the Philippines, there are at least 109 species of Hoya; 88 of these are endemic to the country.

One such endemic species is Hoya meliflua Merr found in Apayao, Bataan, Laguna, La Union and Rizal in Luzon Island and in Leyte, Mindoro, Negros, Palawan and Panay islands in Central Philippines all at low altitudes.

New records of occurrence in other provinces, such as Laguna, have not been published yet.

The Plant List.

States that Hoya meliflua is an unresolved name because some data suggest that it is synonymous with Hoya diversifolia Blume which is also found in other countries.

This may be attributed to the confusion on the identity of the two Philippine native species.

This study is part of our research on the chemical constituents of Philippine native hoyas.

We earlier reported the isolation of lupenone and lupeol from the roots; lupeol, squalene and beta-sitosterol from the leaves; and betulin from the stems of Hoya mindorensis Schlechter.

In another study, we reported the isolation of lupeol, alpha-amyrin , beta-amyrin , lupeol acetate , alpha-amyrin acetate Triterpenes and Sterols from Leaves of Hoya meliflua Merr..

.: Hoya plants are also called wax plants due to the waxy appearance of their leaves and flowers.

Most species are cultivated as ornamental plants.

In the Philippines, there are at least 109 species of Hoya; 88 of these are endemic to the country.

One of the endemic species is Hoya meliflua often confused with Hoya diversifolia, which can also be found in other countries.

This study is part of our research on the chemical constituents of Philippine native Hoyas.

Methods: The compounds were isolated by silica gel chromatography and identified by NMR spectroscopy.

Results: Chemical investigation of the dichloromethane extract from the leaves of Hoya meliflua afforded squalene and mixtures of beta-amyrin , alpha-amyrin and lupeol in about 1:1:0.25 ratio; oleanone , ursenone and lupenone in about 1:1:0.3 ratio; beta-amyrin cinnamate , alpha-amyrin cinnamate and lupenyl cinnamate in about 0.5:0.3:1 ratio; and beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol in about 5:1 ratio. .: The results of our study indicate that Hoya meliflua shares similar chemical characteristics with other members of the genus Hoya.

The triterpenes and sterols obtained from Hoya meliflua were also identified from other Hoya species.

Hoya meliflua is interesting to note that although most Hoya plants have no known biological activity and medicinal property, the compounds isolated from Hoya meliflua possess diverse bioactivities.

Key words: Hoya meliflua, Apocynaceae, Squalene, beta-amyrin, alpha-amyrin, Lupeol, Oleanone, Ursenone, Lupenone, beta-amyrin Cinnamate, alpha-amyrin Cinnamate, Lupenyl Cinnamate, beta-sitosterol, Stigmasterol.

Vincent Antonio S. Ng1,*, Raymond S. Malabed, Fernando B. Aurigue, Consolacion Y. Ragasa,4 Vincent Antonio S. Ng1,*, Raymond S. Malabed, Fernando B. Aurigue, Consolacion Y. Ragasa,4 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, PHILIPPINES.

2Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science, Osaka University, Osaka 560-0043, JAPAN.

3Agriculture Research Section, Atomic Research Division, Philippine Nuclear Research Institute-Department of Science and Technology, Commonwealth Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City 1101, PHILIPPINES.

4Chemistry Department, De La Salle University Science and Technology Complex Leandro betulin, Locsin Campus, Binan City, Laguna 4024, PHILIPPINES.

Correspondence Dr.

Vincent Antonio S. Ng Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, PHILIPPINES.

Phone no : +632-5360230 E-mail: vincent.ng@dlsu.edu.ph History Submission Date: 25-07-2018; Review completed: 04-10-2018; Accepted Date: 01-11-2018 DOI : 10.5530/pj. .

1.

Article Available online http://www.phcogj.com/v11/i1 Copyright 2019 Phcog.

Net.

This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4. International license.

Cite this article: Vincent AS.

NG, Malabed RS, Aurigue FB, Ragasa CY.

Triterpenes and Sterols from Leaves of Hoya meliflua Merr.

Pharmacog J. 2019;11:48-52. and beta-amyrin acetate from the stems; and squalene, beta-sitosterol, alpha-amyrin, bauerenol , lutein and stigmasterol from the leaves of Hoya multiflora Blume.

Furthermore, the isolation of beta-amyrin cinnamate and taraxerol from the stems; and beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, taraxerol, triglycerides and chlorophyll a from the leaves of Hoya wayetii Kloppenb has been reported.

Moreover, the isolation of beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, beta-amyrin cinnamate, taraxerol, taraxerone and alpha-amyrin cinnamate from the stems; beta-sitosterol, taraxerol, and taraxerone, from the roots; beta-amyrin cinnamate, and alpha-amyrin cinnamate, from the flowers; and squalene, beta-sitosterol, and saturated hydrocarbons from the leaves of Hoya buotii has been reported.

We also reported the isolation of lupeol, squalene, beta-sitosterol, alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, beta-amyrin cinnamate, and XX from the leaves; and squalene, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, taraxerol, and lupeol cinnamate from the stems of Hoya diversifolia Blume.

Chemical investigation of the dichloromethane extracts of Hoya cumingiana Decne yielded lupeol, beta-sitosterol, alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, stigmasterol, and bauerenol from the leaves; and taraxerol, from the stems.

Recently, wereported the isolation of beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, and taraxerol, from the stems and lupenone, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, 2-hydroxyethylbenzoate and fatty acid methyl esters from the leaves of Hoya pubicalyx.

In another study, the dichloromethane extracts of Hoya paziae Kloppenb yielded alpha-amyrin acetate, beta-amyrin acetate, taraxerol, and taraxeryl acetate from the stems and lupeol, alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, lupeol fatty acid esters Vincent, et al.: Triterpenes and Sterols Pharmacognosy Journal, Vol 11, Issue 1, Jan-Feb, 2019 49 , alpha-amyrin fatty acid esters and beta-amyrin fatty acid esters from the leaves.

Furthermore, the dichloromethane extracts of Hoya cagayanensis afforded lupenone, lupeol, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, XX and dihydrocanaric acid , from the stems; and 2-hydroxyethyl benzoate from the leaves.

Recently, the dichloromethane extracts of Hoya madulidii yielded lupeol, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, beta-amyrin cinnamate, alpha-amyrin cinnamate, XX and lupeol cinnamate, from the stems and squalene, beta-sitosterol, stigmasterol, chlorophyll a, and XX from the leaves.

In this study, the dichloromethane extract of the leaves of Hoya meliflua yielded squalene, beta-amyrin , alpha-amyrin , lupeol , oleanone , ursenone , lupenone , beta-amyrin cinnamate , alpha-amyrin cinnamate , lupenyl cinnamate , beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol (Figure 1).

MATERIALS AND METHODS General Experimental Procedure Sample spectra were obtained on a JEOL ECS 400 spectrometer with CDCl as solvent.

Column chromatography was performed, with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh).

Thin layer chromatography was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254 and the plates were visualized by spraying with vanillin/H2SO4 solution followed by warming.

Sample Collection Hoya meliflua leaves and stems were collected from healthy vines of a clone that has been cultivated for more than 10 years.

Samples labeled as PNRI-H.CA were provided under Material Transfer Agreement No. -004 dated June 24, 2016.

The original plant came from Quezon Province, Philippines and authenticated by one of the authors (FBA).

General Isolation Procedure A glass column 12 inches in height with 0.5 inch internal diameter was used for the fractionation of the crude extract.

Fractions of 10 mL volumes were collected and monitored by thin layer chromatography.

Fractions containing spots with similar Rf values were combined and rechromatographed using the appropriate solvent.

Final purification was carried out using Pasteur pipette as the column, collecting 1 mL fractions.

TLC-pure isolates were combined and after evaporation of the solvent, were subjected to NMR analysis.

Isolation of Chemical Constituents of the Leaves The air-dried leaves (252.8 g) were ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for three days and then filtered.

The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford a crude extract (7.8 g) which was chromatographed by gradient elution with CH2Cl2, followed by increasing amounts of acetone at 10% increment by volume as eluents.

The CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (2 ) using petroleum ether to afford squalene (12.8 mg).

The 10% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (3 ) using 1% EtOAc in petroleum ether to yield a mixture of beta-amyrin cinnamate, alpha-amyrin cinnamate, and lupenyl cinnamate, (5.0 mg), after washing with petroleum ether.

The 20% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (3 ) using 2.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to yield a mixture of oleanone, ursenone, and lupenone, (10.3 mg), after washing with petroleum ether.

The 30% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (4 ) using 7.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of beta-amyrin, alpha-amyrin, and lupeol, (10.6 mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fractions was rechromatographed (3 ) using 10% EtOAc in petroleum ether to yield a mixture of beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol (21.0 mg) after washing with petroleum ether..

Silica gel chromatography of the dichloromethane extract from the leaves of Hoya meliflua afforded squalene and mixtures of beta-amyrin , alpha-amyrin and lupeol in about 1:1:0.25 ratio; oleanone , ursenone and lupenone in about 1:1:0.3 ratio; beta-amyrin cinnamate , alpha-amyrin cinnamate and lupenyl cinnamate in about 0.5:0.3:1 ratio; and beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol in about 5:1 ratio.

The structures of these compounds were identified by comparison of their NMR data with those reported in the literature.

The NMR spectra of beta-amyrin, are in accordance with data reported in the literature for beta-amyrin, alpha-amyrin, for alpha-amyrin, lupeol, for lupeol, oleanone, for oleanone, ursenone, for ursenone, lupenone, for lupenone, beta-amyrin cinnamate, for beta-amyrin cinnamate, alpha-amyrin cinnamate, for alpha-amyrin cinnamate, lupenyl cinnamate, for lupeol cinnamate, squalene, beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol.

The ratio of about 1:1:0.25 for the mixture of beta-amyrin , alpha-amyrin and lupeol was deduced from the intensities and integrations of the 1H NMR resonances for the olefinic protons of beta-amyrin, at 5.16 (brs),7,12 alpha-amyrin, at 5.11 (brs)7,12 and lupeol, at 4.68 (brs) and 4.56 (brs). ,12,18 The ratio of about 1:1:0.30 for the mixture of oleanone , ursenone and lupenone was deduced from the intensities and integrations of the 1H NMR resonances for the olefinic protons of oleanone, at 5.19 (t, J = 3. Hz),15 ursenone, at 5.14 (t, J = 3. Hz)15 and lupenone, at 4.67 (brs) and 4.55 (brs).

The ratio of about 0.5:0.3:1 for the mixture of beta-amyrin cinnamate , alpha-amyrin cinnamate and lupenyl cinnamate was deduced from the intensities and integrations of the 1H NMR resonances for the olefinic protons of beta-amyrin cinnamate, 5.18 (brs),6,17 alpha-amyrin cinnamate, at 5.13 (brs);6,17 and lupenyl cinnamate, at 4.68 (br s) and 4.56 (br s).

The ratio of about 5:1 for the mixture of beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol was deduced from the intensities and integrations of the 1H NMR resonances for olefinic protons at 5.33 (brs, H-5) and methyl protons at 0.66 (s) for beta-sitoterol and olefinic protons at 5.33 (brs, H-5), 5.13 (dd, J = 8.4, 15.

Hz) and 5.00 (dd, J = 8.4, 15.

Hz) and the methyl protons at 0.68 (s) for stigmasterol.

Hoya meliflua is cultivated as an ornamental plant in the Philippines.

There is no reported biological activity and medicinal property for the plant, but Blanco mentioned as early as 1845 a record that Hoya meliflua causes stoppage of birth, or perhaps as an abortifacient.

However, literature search revealed that the compounds isolated from the plant possess diverse activities.

Beta-Amyrin and alpha-amyrin were reported to possess anti-inflammatory. -23 and analgesic-25 properties Triterpene beta-amyrin, showed antifungal activity againstA rabiei with an MIC value of 0.0156 mg/mL, while alpha-amyrin, was proposed as a possible biomarker for the fungal resistance of grape-vine leaves (Vitis vinifera).

The mixture of beta-amyrin, and alpha-amyrin, effectively reduced the elevated plasma glucose levels during the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).

Furthermore, the mixture of beta-amyrin, and alpha-amyrin, at 100mg/kg significantly decreased the VLDL and LDL cholesterol and increased the HDL cholesterol.

A review on the sources and biological activities of beta-amyrin, and alpha-amyrin, has beenprovided.

Figure 1: Chemical structures of beta-amyrin , alpha-amyrin , lupeol , oleanone , ursenone , lupenone , beta-amyrin cinnamate , alpha-amyrin cinnamate and lupenyl cinnamate .

Vincent, et al.: Triterpenes and Sterols 50 Pharmacognosy Journal, Vol 11, Issue 1, Jan-Feb, 2019 On the other hand, lupeol exhibited antiurolithiatic and diuretic activity.

lupeol prevented the formation of vesical calculi and reduced the size of the preformed stones in rats.

lupeol also showed antifungal activity against Fusarium oxysporum and Penicillium notatum.

Triterpene lupeol, significantly reduced the 451Lu tumor growth in athymic nude mice, inhibited the proliferation of MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells in a dose dependent manner and induced growth inhibition and apoptosis in hepatocellular carcinoma SMMC cells by downregulation of the death receptor 3 (DR3) expression.

lupeol exhibited potent anti-inflammatory activity in an allergic airway inflammation model by a significant reduction in eosinophils infiltration and in Th2-associated cytokines levels that trigger the immune responses in asthma.

Another study reported that lupeol, and lupeol acetate have shown hypotensive activity.

A review on the biological activities of lupeol has been provided.

Lupenone inhibited adipocyte differentiation by suppressing PPARgamma and C/EBPalpha protein levels.

Lupenone also increased the tyrosinase enzyme expression via mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylated extracellular signal regulated kinases 1 and 2 phosphorylation inhibition which results to stimulation of melanogenesis.

This suggests that lupenone, could be a possible treatment for hypopigmentation.

Beta-Amyrin cinnamate was reported to inhibit the TPAS-induced inflammation (ID500.27 mol/ear;CI 95% 0.23-0.33 mol/ear) which is more inhibitory than the positive control, indomethacin (ID50 0.91 mol/ ear ;CI 95% 0.23-0.33 mol/ear). alpha-Amyrin cinnamate , lupeol cinnamate and beta-amyrin cinnamate, exhibited marked anti-inflammatory activity against TPA-induced inflammation (ID50 = 0.15-0.75 mol/ear).

Triterpene lupenyl cinnamate, showed the highest activity with ID50 of 0.15 mol/ear.

This triterpene at a dose of 10 mg/kg also exhibited anti-inflammatory activity on rat hind paw edema induced by carrageenan.

Furthermore, lupenyl cinnamate, exhibited inhibitory effect on skin tumor promotion in an in vivo two-stage carcinogenesis test using DMBA as an initiator and TPA as a promoter.

Triterpenes beta-amyrin cinnamate, alpha-amyrin cinnamate, lupenyl cinnamate, showed moderate inhibitory effects on Epstein-Barr virus early antigen (EBV-EA) in Raji cells as a primary screening test for inhibitors of tumor promoters.

Squalene was reported to significantly suppress colonic ACF formation and crypt multiplicity which strengthened the hypothesis that it possesses chemopreventive activity against colon carcinogenesis.

Squalene showed cardioprotective effect which is related to inhibition of lipid accumulation by its hypolipidemic properties and/or its antioxidant properties.

A recent study reported that tocotrienols, carotenoids, squalene and coenzyme Q10 have anti-proliferative effects on breast cancer cells.

The preventive and therapeutic potential of squalene containing compounds on tumor promotion and regression have been reported.

A recent review on the bioactivities of squalene has been provided.

Beta-Sitosterol was observed to have growth inhibitory effects on human breast MCF-7 and MDAMB-231 adenocarcinoma cells.

Beta-Sitosterol was shown to be effective for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Beta-Sitosterol was also reported to attenuate beta-catenin and PCNA expression, as well as quench radical in-vitro, making Beta-Sitosterol a potential anticancer drug for colon carcinogenesis.

Beta-Sitosterol can inhibit the expression of NPC1L1 in the enterocytes to reduce intestinal cholesterol uptake.

Beta-Sitosterol was reported to induce apoptosis mediated by the activation of ERK and the downregulation of Akt in MCA-t102 murine fibrosarcoma cells.

Stigmasterol showed therapeutic efficacy against Ehrlich ascites carcinoma bearing mice while conferring protection against cancer induced altered physiological conditions.

Stigmasterol lowered plasma cholesterol levels, inhibited intestinal cholesterol and plant sterol absorption and suppressed hepatic cholesterol and classic bile acid synthesis in Winstar as well as WKY rats.

Other studies reported that stigmasterol showed cytostatic activity against Hep-2 and McCoy cells, markedly inhibited tumour promotion in two stage carcinogenesis experiments, exhibited antimutagenic, topical anti-inflammatory, antiosteoarthriticand antioxidant activities..

The results of our study indicate that Hoya meliflua shares similar chemical characteristics with other members of the genus Hoya: Hoya multiflora, Hoya diversifolia, Hoya cumingiana, and Hoya paziae which yielded beta-amyrin and alpha-amyrin ; Hoya mindorensis, Hoya multiflora, Hoya diversifolia, Hoya cumingiana, Hoya paziae, Hoya cagayanensis, and Hoya madulidii which contained lupeol ; Hoya mindorensis, Hoya pubicalyx, and Hoya cagayanensis which afforded lupenone ; Hoya wayetii, Hoya buotii, and Hoya madulidii which yielded beta-amyrin cinnamate ; Hoya buotii, and Hoya madulidii which afforded alpha-amyrin cinnamate ; Hoya diversifolia and Hoya madulidii which provided lupenyl cinnamate ; Hoya mindorensis, Hoya multiflora, Hoya wayetii, Hoya buotii, Hoya diversifolia, Hoya cumingiana, Hoya pubicalyx, Hoya cagayanensis, and Hoya madulidii which contained beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol; and Hoya mindorensis, Hoya buotii, Hoya diversifolia and Hoya madulidii which contained squalene.

The most common constituents of the eleven native Hoya species studied are beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol which are found in ten species.

Of the twelve compounds isolated from Hoya meliflua, lupeol is found in eight species, squalene, beta-amyrin and alpha-amyrin in five species, lupenone and beta-amyrin cinnamate in four species, alpha-amyrin cinnamate and lupenyl cinnamate in three species.

Oleanone and ursenone are reported for the first time from Philippine Hoya species.

Oleanone is interesting to note that although most Hoya plants have no known biological activity and medicinal property, the compounds isolated from Hoya meliflua possess diverse bioactivities.

Lastly, the difference in results of phytochemical analysis of Hoya meliflua is a proof that it is an entirely different and distinct species from Hoya diversifolia..

VASN would like to thank Prof.

Michio Murata of Osaka University for his generous assistance with the NMR measurements.

A research grant from the University Research Coordinating Office (URCO) of De La Salle University Manila (07N1TAY16-2TAY17) is gratefully acknowledged.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors declare no conflict of interest.

ABBREVIATIONS CH2Cl2: Dichloromethane; EtOAc: Ethyl acetate; Et2O: Diethyl ether.