Available online www.jocpr.com Journal of Chemical and Pharmaceutical Research, 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243 Research Article ISSN : 0975-7384 CODEN(USA) : JCPRC 1237 Sterols, triglycerides and essential fatty acid constituents of Brassica oleracea varieties, Brassica juncea and Raphanus sativus Consolacion Y. Ragasa*, Vincent Antonio S. Ng2, Oscar B. Torres, Nicole Samantha Y. Sevilla, Kim Valerie M. Uy2, Ma.

Carmen S. Tan2, Marissa G. Noel and Chien-Chang Shen 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University Science & Technology Complex Leandro V. Locsin Campus, Binan City, Laguna, Philippines 2Chemistry Department De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila, Philippines 3National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, 155-1, Li-Nong St., Sec. , Taipei 112, Taiwan.

. The dichloromethane extracts of the leaves of Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L (red cabbage) and Brassica oleracea L (green/white cabbage) and the stem of Brassica oleracea L var italic (broccoli) afforded beta-sitosterol and unsaturated triglycerides .

The red cabbage also afforded stigmasterol , while the green/white cabbage and broccoli stem also yielded the essential fatty acid, linoleic acid .

Brassica juncea (mustard) leaves and Raphanus sativus (radish) roots afforded Beta-Sitosterol, and the essential fatty acids Linoleic acid, and alpha-linolenic acid .

Mustard leaves also yielded trilinolenin , lutein and beta-carotene , while radish roots also afforded triglycerides, These compounds were reported to exhibit anticancer properties.

Keywords: Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L, red cabbage, Brassica oleracea L., green/white cabbage, Brassica oleracea L var italic, broccoli, Brassica juncea, mustard, Raphanus sativus, radish, beta-sitosterol, triglycerides, linoleic acid, trilinolenin, linolenic acid, stigmasterol, lutein, beta-carotene.

. The vegetables of the Brassicaceae family include Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L (red cabbage), Brassica oleracea L. (green/white cabbage), Brassica oleracea L var italic (broccoli), Brassica juncea (mustard) and Raphanus sativus (radish) which have been shown to exhibit cancer preventing effects due to their high content of glucosinolates which hydrolyze to form products such as bioactive isothiocyanates.

Phytochemical screening on the leaf extracts of Brassica oleracea L. var capitata revealed the presence of alkaloids, tannins, saponins, phenols, glycosides, steroids, terpenoids and flavonoids.

The ethanolic extract with the highest phenolic compounds exhibited the greatest anti-oxidant activity.

The leaf extract of Brassica oleracea L. var capitata possesses significant hepatoprotective activity.

Chemical components analysis of Brassica oleracea L. var capitata has shown that it is rich in phenolic compounds , carotenoids and glucosinolates.

Methanolic extracts of Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L were shown to exhibit synergistic anticancer effects against HeLa and HepG cells.

An earlier study reported that the major constituents of red cabbage are isothiocyanates (glucosinolate), vitamins A, B, C and anthocyanins.

In a recent study, it was reported that Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al J. Chem.

Pharm. Res., 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243.

1238 polyphenolic compounds (phenyl propanoids, flavonols and anthocyanins) are the major antioxidants in red cabbage.
 Beta-Sitosterol, HO HO stigmasterol, H2C HC OC(CH2)7CH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH3 OC(CH2)7CH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH3 H2C OC(CH2)7CH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH=CHCHCH3 O O O trilinolenin, COOH Linoleic acid, alpha-linolenic acid, COOH Beta-carotene, OH HO lutein, H2C HC OCR OCR' H2C OCR" O O O triglycerides, R, R', R" = linoleic acid, linolenic acid Chemical constituents of Brassica oleracea varieties, Brassica juncea and Raphanus sativus: beta-sitosterol , triglyceride , stigmasterol , linoleic acid , trilinolenin , alpha-linolenic acid , lutein and beta-carotene beta-Sitosterol is a major sterol of Brassica oleracea L. var botrytis italica Plenck.

The vegetable contains glucosinolates, flavonoids, vitamins and mineral nutrients as well as antioxidants such as beta-carotene, alphatocopherol, indoles and isothiocyanates.

3,3'-Indolylmethane and indole-3-carbinol, hydrolysis by-products of Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al J. Chem.

Pharm. Res., 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243.

1239 broccoli, exhibited multiple chemo-preventive effects through the inhibition of androgen and estrogen related mechanisms and signaling pathways mediating the cell cycle.

.

The isothiocyanates commonly found in broccoli, sulforaphane and erucin, inhibited the expression of LasR, a transcriptional activator, through the disruption of quorum sensing in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Mammospheres or stem/progenitor cells from breast adenocarcinoma immortalized cell lines, MCF7 and SUM159, were treated with sulforaphane.

Anti-proliferation of these cells was induced due to the decreased presence of aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme activity.

The major constituents of the essential oils in the seeds of Brassica juncea (L.) Coss., grown in Hebei, Shaanxi and Shandong Province were allyl isothiocyanate (61.3%), diallyl trisulfide (9.7%) and 3-butenyl isothiocyanate trilinolenin, 9%).

Another study reported that Brassica juncea seed oil afforded beta-sitosterol, campesterol and brassicasterol.

The chemical constituents of Brassica juncea include glucosinolates, ascorbate, folate and sterols (brassicasterol, sitosterol and brassinosteroids).

Raphanus sativus (radish) sprouts and mature radish taproot contained glucosinolates, isothiocyanates, phenolics and anthocyanins.

The major fatty acids in seed lipids of radish were erucic, oleic, linoleic, and linolenic acids, while the major fatty acids in radish family lipids were linolenic acid (52-55%), erucic acid (30-33%), and palmitic acid (20-22%).

This study was conducted on the dichloromethane extracts of the Brassica vegetables red cabbage (Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L), green/white cabbage (Brassica oleracea L.), broccoli (Brassica oleracea L var italic), mustard (Brassica juncea) and radish (Raphanus sativus).

Results of this study identified the relatively nonpolar constituents which may contribute to the anticancer properties of these vegetables.

We report herein the sterols, triglycerides and essential fatty acid constituents of local collections of Brassica oleracea varieties, Brassica juncea and Raphanus sativus.

Carotenoids were also isolated as the major constituents of Brassica juncea.

These compounds have been reported to exhibit anticancer properties.

EXPERIMENTAL SECTION General Experimental Procedures NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian VNMRS spectrometer in CDCl at 600 MHz for 1H NMR and 150 MHz for 13C NMR spectra.

Column chromatography was performed with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh).

Thin layer chromatography was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254 and the plates were visualized by spraying with vanillin/H2SO4 solution followed by warming.

Plant Materials Five kg each of red and green cabbage and broccoli were purchased from Arranque market in September 2011.

The samples were authenticated as Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L (red cabbage), Brassica oleracea L (green/white cabbage) and Brassica oleracea L var italica (broccoli) at the Bureau of Plant industry, Quirino Avenue, Manila, Philippines.

One kg of mustard was collected from a private farm in Sitio Usiwan, Barangay Palola, Lucban, Quezon in March 2013.

Brassica oleracea was identified as Brassica juncea at the Bureau of Plant industry, Quirino Avenue, Manila, Philippines.

One kg of radish roots was bought from Arranque market in March 2013.

Brassica oleracea was identified as Raphanus sativus at the Botany Division, Philippine National Museum.

Extraction and Isolation The air-dried leaves of Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L (red cabbage) (480 g), Brassica oleracea L (green/white cabbage) (515 trilinolenin, g) and the freeze-dried stems of Brassica oleracea L var italic (broccoli) (87 trilinolenin, g) were separately ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for three days, and then filtered.

The filtrates were concentrated under vacuum to afford the crude extracts: red cabbage alpha-linolenic acid, triglycerides, g), green/white cabbage stigmasterol, Linoleic acid, g) and broccoli (0 alpha-linolenic acid, g).

The freeze-dried mustard leaves (379 Linoleic acid, g) and radish roots (56 trilinolenin, g) were ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for three days, and then filtered to afford crude extracts: mustard leaves (9 Beta-carotene, g) and radish roots (170 trilinolenin, mg).

The crude extracts were separately fractionated by silica gel chromatography using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 (10% increment) as eluents.

A glass column 18 inches in height and Beta-Sitosterol, 0 inch internal diameter was used for the fractionation of the crude extracts.

Five milliliter fractions were collected.

Fractions with spots of the same Rf values were combined and rechromatographed in appropriate solvent systems until TLC pure isolates were obtained.

A glass column 12 inches in height and 0 trilinolenin, inch internal diameter was used Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al J. Chem.

Pharm. Res., 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243.

1240 for the rechromatography.

Two milliliter fractions were collected.

Final purifications were conducted using Pasteur pipettes as columns.

One milliliter fractions were collected.

The 20% to 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fractions from the chromatography of the crude red cabbage extract were combined and rechromatographed in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were rechromatographed Linoleic acid, ) in 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of triglycerides, (25 mg).

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed triglycerides, ) in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of Beta-Sitosterol, and stigmasterol, (12 mg) in about 7:1 ratio after washing with petroleum ether.

The CH2Cl2 to 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fractions from the chromatography of the crude green/white cabbage extract were combined and rechromatographed in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in 5% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford triglycerides, (12 mg).

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed in 15% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were rechromatographed triglycerides, ) in 15% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford Beta-Sitosterol, (12 mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed in 15% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford Linoleic acid, (18 mg).

The 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude broccoli stems extract was rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford Linoleic acid, (9 mg).

The 60% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude broccoli extract was rechromatographed in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford triglycerides, (14 mg).

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed triglycerides, ) in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford Beta-Sitosterol, (11 mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The 10% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude mustard leaves extract was rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in triglycerides, 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford Beta-carotene, (13 mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The 30% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude mustard leaves extract was rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in lutein, 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford trilinolenin, (15 mg).

The 40% to 50% acetone in CH2Cl2 fractions from the chromatography of the crude mustard extract were combined and rechromatographed in 20% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were rechromatographed triglycerides, ) in 20% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford Beta-Sitosterol, Beta-carotene, mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in acetonitrile:Et2O:CH2Cl2 (0.5:0.5:9 by volume) to afford a mixture of Linoleic acid, and alpha-linolenic acid, (14 mg) in a 1:2 ratio and lutein, (19 mg) after washing with petroleum ether, followed by diethyl ether.

The 10% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude radish roots extract was rechromatographed stigmasterol, ) in 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford triglycerides, alpha-linolenic acid, mg).

The 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude radish roots extract was rechromatographed triglycerides, ) in 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford Beta-Sitosterol, Beta-Sitosterol, mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The 50% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction from the chromatography of the crude radish roots extract was rechromatographed Linoleic acid, ) in acetonitrile:Et2O:CH2Cl2 (0.5:0.5:9 by volume) afford a mixture of Linoleic acid, and alpha-linolenic acid, stigmasterol, mg)..

The dichloromethane extracts from the leaves of Brassica oleracea var capitata f. rubra L (red cabbage) and Brassica oleracea L (green/white cabbage) and the stem of Brassica oleracea L var itali (broccoli) afforded Beta-Sitosterol, and triglycerides, The red cabbage also yielded stigmasterol, while the green/white cabbage and broccoli stem also yielded Linoleic acid, The structures of Beta-Sitosterol, triglycerides, stigmasterol, and Linoleic acid, were identified by comparison of their 13C NMR data with those reported in the literature for betasitosterol , unsaturated triglyceride , stigmasterol and linoleic acid , respectively.

The dichloromethane extracts of the leaves of Brassica juncea (mustard) and the roots of Raphanus sativus (radish) yielded Beta-Sitosterol, and the essential fatty acids, Linoleic acid, and alpha-linolenic acid .

Mustard leaves also afforded trilinolenin , lutein and beta-carotene , while radish roots also yielded triglycerides, The structures of trilinolenin, alpha-linolenic acid, lutein, and Beta-carotene, were identified by comparison of their 13C NMR data with those reported in the literature for trilinolenin , alpha-linolenic acid , lutein and beta-carotene , respectively.

The presence of alpha-linolenic acid in the triglyceride was deduced from the methyl triplet at 0.96 (t, J = lutein, Hz), the double allylic methylenes at triglycerides, 78 and the olefinic protons at trilinolenin, 34 (m).

The presence linoleic acid Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al J. Chem.

Pharm. Res., 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243.

1241 was deduced from the methyl triplet at 0.86 (t, J = alpha-linolenic acid, Hz), the double allylic methylene at triglycerides, Beta-carotene, and the olefinic protons at trilinolenin, 34 (m).

Based on integrations of the triglyceride methyls at 0.96 (t, J = lutein, Hz) and 0.86 (t, J = alpha-linolenic acid, Hz), the ratio of linolenic acid and linoleic acid in the triglycerides of red cabbage and radish is about 1:1. On the other hand, the triglyceride in mustard is trilinolenin based on the methyl resonance at 0.96 (t, J = lutein, Hz).

No other methyl resonance in the shielded region of the spectrum was detected for the triglyceride in mustard.

A mixture of alpha-linolenic acid and linoleic acid in a 1:1 ratio was deduced from the integrals of the methyl triplets at 0.96 (t, J = lutein, Hz) and 0.86 (t, J = lutein, Hz) for the fatty acids in red cabbage and radish.

In mustard, a mixture of alpha-linolenic acid and linoleic acid in a 2:1 ratio was deduced from the integrals of the methyl triplets at 0.96 (t, J = lutein, Hz) and 0.86 (t, J = lutein, Hz) for the fatty acids.

Although no biological activity tests were conducted on the isolated compounds, literature search revealed that these have several known bioactivities.

alpha-linolenic acid is interesting to note that Beta-Sitosterol, triglycerides, stigmasterol, Linoleic acid, trilinolenin, alpha-linolenic acid, lutein, Beta-carotene, were all reported as anticancer compounds.

Beta-Sitosterol was observed to have growth inhibitory effects on human breast MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 adenocarcinoma cells.

Beta-Sitosterol was shown to be effective for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Beta-Sitosterol was also reported to attenuate beta-catenin and PCNA expression, as well as quench radical in-vitro, making Beta-Sitosterol a potential anticancer drug for colon carcinogenesis.

Beta-Sitosterol can inhibit the expression of NPC1L1 in the enterocytes to reduce intestinal cholesterol uptake.

Beta-Sitosterol was reported to induce apoptosis mediated by the activation of ERK and the downregulation of Akt in MCA-102 murine fibrosarcoma cells.

On the other hand, stigmasterol shows therapeutic efficacy against Ehrlich ascites carcinoma bearing mice while conferring protection against cancer induced altered physiological conditions.

A triglyceride, trilinolein exhibited protective effects against cardiovascular disorders.

triglyceride also inhibits ischemiainduced ventricular arrhythmias and triglyceride exhibits anti-oxidant effect.

triglyceride was also reported to inhibit the growth of human non-small cell lung carcinoma A549 and induce apoptosis in a doseand timedependent manner.

Another study reported that triglycerides showed a direct relationship between toxicity and increasing unsaturation, which in turn correlated with increasing susceptibility to oxidation.

Trilinolenin (18:3; -3) was toxic only after prolonged incubation.

Linoleic acid belongs to the omega-6 fatty acids.

Linoleic acid was reported to be a strong anticarcinogen in a number of animal models.

Linoleic acid reduces risk of colon and breast cancer and lowers cardiovascular disease risk and inflammations.

Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) , and their fatty acid ethyl esters, exhibited strong antibacterial activity against various oral pathogens, including Streptococcus mutans, Candida albicans, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Porphyromonas gingivalis.

They also showed anti-inflammatory effects.

Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibition serve as two signaling pathways for the inhibitory effects of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) on the human renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell proliferation.

Another study reported that apoptosis of hepatoma cells was induced by the alpha-linolenic acidenriched diet which correlated with a decrease in arachidonate content in hepatoma cells and decreased cyclooxygenase-2 expression.

Gamma-Linolenic acid (GLA) and alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) exhibited greater than 90% cytotoxicity between 500 M and Beta-Sitosterol, mM against all but two malignant micro-organ cultures tested in 5-10% serum.

GLA and ALA killed tumor at concentrations of triglycerides, mM and above in tests using 30-40% serum.

Dietary lutein , especially at 0.002%, inhibited tumor growth by selectively modulating apoptosis, and by inhibiting angiogenesis.

Another study reported that the chemopreventive properties of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and lutein may be attributed to their differential effects on apoptosis pathways in normal versus transformed mammary cells.

A previous study reported that very low amounts of dietary lutein (0.002%) can efficiently decrease mammary tumor development and growth in mice.

Beta-carotene dose-dependently induced apoptosis and cell differentiation in cultured leukemia cells, but not in normal cells.

Another study reported that beta-carotene could reduce damage caused by radiation therapy and decrease local cancer recurrence.

beta-carotene also inhibited angiogenesis by altering the cytokine profile and the activation and nuclear translocation of transcription factors.

Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al J. Chem.

Pharm. Res., 2013, trilinolenin, 12):1237-1243.

1242.

The dichloromethane extracts of Brassica vegetables (red cabbage, green cabbage, broccoli and mustard) and radish afforded similar major constituents: beta-sitosterol, unsaturated triglycerides and essential fatty acids (linoleic and linolenic acids) which were reported to exhibit anticancer properties.

Thus, the anticancer properties of Brassica vegetables and radish are not only attributed to the high content of glucosinolates, but also to the presence of sterols, unsaturated triglycerides and essential fatty acids.

Acknowledgment A research grant from the De La Salle University Challenge Grant through the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation of is gratefully acknowledged.