www.ijcpr.comAvailable online on International Journal of Current Pharmaceutical Review and Research; 7; 223-224 ISSN: 0976 822X Research Article *Author for Correspondence Chemical Constituents of Dioscorea luzonensis Schauer Consolacion Y Ragasa beta-sitosterol, , Julian D Guardamano ursolic acid, Maria Carmen S Tan1, Roque A Ulep, Ian A van Altena 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, Philippines.

Chemistry Department, De La Salle University Science & Technology Complex Leandro V. Locsin Campus, Binan City, Laguna 4024, Philippines.

Physical Sciences Department, De La Salle University-Dasmarinas, Cavite, Philippines.

Chemistry Department, Mariano Marcos State University, Batac, Ilocos Norte.

School of Environmental and Life Sciences, Faculty of Science and Information Technology, Chemistry, The University of Newcastle-Australia, Callaghan, NSW, 2308, Australia.

Available Online:15th July, 2016.

Chemical investigation of the dichloromethane extracts of Dioscorea luzonensis Schauer tubers led to the isolation of long chain alkyl trans-ferulates , a mixture of 1 and beta-sitosterol , and fatty acids from the skin; and ursolic acid and fatty acids from the inner portion.

The structures of beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, were identified by comparison of their NMR data with literature data.

Keywords: Dioscorea luzonensis, Dioscoreaceae, alkyl trans-ferulates, beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, fatty acids..

Dioscorea luzonensis, also known as wild yam or camangeg, is a plant endemic to The Philippines.

Dioscorea luzonensis is a wild root crop that grows naturally in Ilocos province of The Philippines.

The tubers of this plant are usually harvested during the early part of August and these are used as a vegetable and in making delicacies such as haleya.

The tuber has a unique brown color with fine roots on its surface and an elongated and irregular morphology.

The tuber can also be eaten after 20 to 30 minutes boiling and has a unique taste and aroma.

The skin of the tuber is usually considered to be inedible and it is removed when it is used as a food supplement.

The inner portion of the tuber is the edible portion with uniform white color.

Dioscorea luzonensis has no reported biological activities and chemical constituents.

However, congeners of Dioscorea luzonensis have been studied for their chemical constituents.

Dioscorea bulbifera yielded stigmasterol, mono-arachidin, 1,7-bis-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1E,4E,6Eheptatrien-3-one, behenic acid, demethyl batatasin IV, 2,3'-di-hydroxy-4',5'-dimethoxybibenzyl, diosbulbins B and diosbulbins D, docosyl ferulate, 7-bis-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4E, 6Eheptadien-3-one, 53, 4-trihydroxy-3,7-dimethoxy flavone, tristin, protocatechuic acid, and adenosine.

Another study reported the isolation of palmitic acid, -sitosterol, oleic acid, -sitosterol acetate, 5-(hydroxymethyl) furfural, nonanedioic acid, -daucosterol, cyclo-(Phe-Tyr), cyclo(Tyr-Tyr), 6-methyl citrate, 1,5-dimethyl citrate, trimethyl citrate from Dioscorea opposite.

Furthermore, another species, Dioscorea collettii var hyplauca, afforded tricosanatine, 1,7-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-4,6-heptadien-3one, 1,7-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1,4,6-heptatrien-3-one, and dioscin, dioscorone A, 3S-6,8-dihydroxy-3-phenyl,4-dihydroisocoumarin, diosgenin, gracillin, 3-O-alpha-Lrhamnopyranosyl-(12, -beta-D-gucopyranoside-diosgenin, protodioscin, methyl protodiscin, protogracillin, methyl protogracillin, beta-sitosterol, daucosterol, and palmitic acid.

Hydroxybenzoic acid, hydroxycinnamic acid and their derivatives were found in extracts of Dioscorea hispida Dennst tuber.

Moreover, the phenolic compounds cyanidin-3-glucoside and the procyanidin dimers B-1 and B-3 were reported from Dioscorea alata.

We report herein the isolation of long chain alkyl trans-ferulates , a mixture of 1 and beta-sitosterol , and fatty acids from the skin of the tuber; and ursolic acid and fatty acids from the inner portion of the tuber of Dioscorea luzonensis.

The structures of beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, are presented in Fig..

To the best of our knowledge this is the first report on the chemical constituents of Dioscorea luzonensis.

MATERIALS AND METHODS General Experimental Procedure 1H NMR spectra were recorded inCDCl on a Bruker Avance 400 in CDCl at 400.

Column chromatography was performed with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh).

Thin layer chromatography was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254 and the plates were visualized by spraying with vanillin/H2SO4 solution followed by warming.

General Isolation Procedure A glass column 18 inches in height and 1.0 inch internal diameter was packed with silica gel.

The crude extracts were fractionated by silica gel chromatography using increasing proportions of acetone in dichloromethane Consolacion et al. / Chemical Constituents of IJCPR, Volume 7, Issue 4, JulyAugust 2016 Page 224 (10% increment) as eluents.

Twenty milliliter fractions were collected.

All fractions were monitored by thin layer chromatography.

Fractions with spots of the same Rf value were combined and rechromatographed in appropriate solvent systems until TLC pure isolates were obtained.

A glass column 12 inches in height and 0.5 inch internal diameter was used for the rechromatography.

Five milliliter fractions were collected.

Final purifications were conducted using Pasteur pipettes as columns.

One milliliter fractions were collected.

Plant Material The tubers were bought from Batac Public Market in Batac, Ilocos Norte, Philippines in November 2014.

The sample was authenticated by Flordeliz Rapacon Estira of Mariano Marcos State University, Batac, Ilocos Norte, Philippines.

Isolation of the Chemical Constituents of the Skin of the Tuber The freeze-dried skin of the tuber (66.27 g) of Dioscorea luzonensis was cut into small pieces, ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for ursolic acid, days and then filtered.

The solvent was evaporated from the filtrate under vacuum to afford a crude extract (0.6 g) which was chromatographed using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 at 10% increments by volume as eluents.

The 10% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed ursolic acid, ) using beta-sitosterol, 5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford 1 beta-sitosterol, mg).

The 20% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed beta-sitosterol, ) using 7.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to yield a mixture of 1 and beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, mg).

The 30% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed ursolic acid, ) using 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford fatty acids (5 mg).

Isolation of the Chemical Constituents of the Inner Portion of the Tuber The freeze-dried inedible part of the tuber (301.96 g) of Dioscorea luzonensis were cut into about 1 cm, ground in an osterizer, soaked in CH2Cl2 for ursolic acid, days and then filtered.

The solvent was evaporated under vacuum to afford a crude extract (1.02 g), which was chromatographed using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 at 10% increments by volume as eluents.

The 40% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed beta-sitosterol, ) using 20% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford fatty acids (4 mg).

The 50% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed ursolic acid, ) using CH3CN:Et2O:CH2Cl2 (0.5:0.5:9, v/v) to yield 4 beta-sitosterol, mg) after washing with petroleum ether..

Silica gel chromatography of the dichloromethane extracts of Dioscorea luzonensis yielded compounds beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, and fatty acids.

The structures of beta-sitosterol, ursolic acid, and fatty acids were identified by comparison of their NMR data with literature data.

The NMR spectra are in accordance with data reported in the literature for alkyl trans-ferulates 7; beta-sitosterol 8, and ursolic acid 9.

The fatty acid fraction was determined to contain both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids.

ACKNOWLEGEMENTS A research grant from the De La Salle University Science Foundation through the University Research Coordination Office is gratefully acknowledged.