www.scholarsresearchlibrary.comt Available online a Scholars Research Library Der Pharmacia Lettre, 2016, 8 (19):234-236 (http://scholarsresearchlibrary.com/archive.html) ISSN 0975-5071 USA CODEN: DPLEB 234 Scholar Research Library Chemical Constituents of Duranta erecta L. Flowers Julius Leonard A. Vivar, Mariquit M. De Los Reyes, Chien-Chang Shen, and Consolacion Y. Ragasa triacylglycerols, * 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, Philippines 2Biology Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, Philippines 3National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, Ministry of Health and Welfare, 155-1, LiNong St., Sec. , Taipei 112, Taiwan 4Chemistry Department, De La Salle University Science & Technology Complex Leandro V. Locsin Campus, Binan City, Laguna 4024, Philippines.

. Chemical investigation of the dichloromethane extract of the flowers of Duranta erecta L. has led to the isolation of oleanolic acid , a mixture of alpha-amyrin and beta-amyrin in a 3:1 ratio, phytyl fatty acid esters , and triacylglycerols , The structures of 1-4b were identified by comparison of their NMR data with literature data.

Keywords: Duranta erecta, Verbenaceae, oleanolic acid, phytyl fatty acid esters, alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, triacylglycerols.

. Duranta erecta L. (syn Duranta repens L.) of the family Verbenaceae is an ornamental plant which originated fom South America.

In Chinese medicine, the fruits were used for treatment of malaria and the leaves are employed for the treatment of abscesses.

The leaves of Duranta erecta yielded iridoid glucosides, duranterectosides A, duranterectosides B, duranterectosides C, and duranterectosides D, durantosides I and durantosides II, lamiide, lamiidoside and verbascoside.

Duranterectoside Adurantosides I, durantosides II, and durantosides III, and lamiidoside were also isolated from the stems.

The leaves of Duranta repens yielded durantoside IV, durantoside V, oleanolic acid, ursolic acid, (E)-cinnamic acid, beta-sitosteryl-3-O-beta-D-glucopyranoside, (E)-p-methoxycinnamic acid, kusaginin, glucose, durantoside Ind durantoside II

The chloroform extract of stem and ethanol extract of fruits exhibited potent antishigellosis activity and moderate activity against some pathogenic bacteria and fungi.

A mixture of beta-amyrin and 12-oleanene 3beta, 21beta-diol from these extracts showed mild to moderate antimicrobial ativity.

Phenylethanoid glycoside acteoside, the iridoid lamiide and the saponin pseudo-ginsenoside-RT1 were isolated from the methanol extract of Duranta repens.

Acteoside showed an IC50 of phytyl fatty acid esters, 05 +/0.09 g/mL in the DPPH assay, while lamiide and pseudoginsenoside-RT1 were inactive.

The leaves of Duranta repens yielded durantanin IV and durantanin V, a bidesmosidic saponin, oleanolic acid, three phenylethanoids and five flavonoids.

Another study reported the isolation of the flavonoids 3,7,4'-trihydroxy-3'-(4-hydroxy-3-methylbutyl)-5,6-dimethoxyflavone,,7-dihydroxy-3'(4-hydroxy-3-methylbuty l)-5,6,4'-trimetho xyflavone and diterpenes 6beta-hydroxy-15,16-epoxy-5beta,8beta,9beta,10alphacleroda-3,13(16),14-trien-18-oic acid and 2beta-hydroxy-15,16-epoxy-5beta,8beta,9beta,10alpha-cleroda-3,13,14-trien-18-oic acid from Duranta repens.

Furthermore, 24-ethylcholest-5-en-3-alpha-ol, naringenin, 3,4-dihydroxy-beta-phenethyl-O-alpha Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al Der Pharmacia Lettre, 2016, 8 (19):234-236.

235 Scholar Research Library rhamnopyranosyl-4-O-caffeoyl-alpha-D-glucopyranosid, lamiide, alpha-glucopyranosyl-alpha-fructopyrano side, and alphagalactopyranosyl-alpha-glucopyranosyl-fructopyranoside were isolated from the ethanol extract of Duranta repens.

The petroleum ether extract afforded a mixture of hydrocarbons ranging from C15 C27, fatty acids methyl esters and fatty acids with palmitic acid as the main component (46%).

Moreover, trans-cinnamic acid was isolated from the methanol extract of the fruits of Duranta repens.

In this study, we report the isolation of oleanolic acid , a mixture of alpha-amyrin and beta-amyrin , phytyl fatty acid esters , and triacylglycerols from the flowers of Duranta erecta.

The structures of 1-4 are presented in Fig..

Fig..

Chemical structures of oleanolic acid , alpha-amyrin and beta-amyrin , phytyl fatty acid esters , and triacylglycerols from the flowers of Duranta erecta MATERIALS AND METHODS General Experimental Procedure NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian VNMRS spectrometer in CDCl at 600 MHz for 1H NMR and 150 MHz for 13C NMR spectra.

Column chromatography was performed with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh).

Thin layer chromatography was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254 and the plates were visualized by spraying with vanillin/H2SO4 solution followed by warming.

Sample Collection Samples of the flowers of Duranta erecta were collected from Sta Rosa, Laguna, Plippines in January 2015.

The samples were authenticated at the Botany Division, Philippine National Museum.

General Isolation Procedure A glass column 12 inches in height and 0.5 inch internal diameter was used for the chromatography.

The crude extracts were fractionated by silica gel chromatography using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 at 10% increment by volume as eluents.

Five milliliter fractions were collected.

All fractions were monitored by thin layer chromatography.

Fractions with spots of the same Rf values were combined and rechromatographed in appropriate Consolacion Y. Ragasa et al Der Pharmacia Lettre, 2016, 8 (19):234-236.

236 Scholar Research Library solvent systems until TLC pure isolates were obtained.

Final purifications were conducted using Pasteur pipettes as columns.

One milliliter fractions were collected.

Isolation of the chemical constituents from the Flowers of Duranta erecta The air-dried Duranta erecta flowers (70 g) were ground in a blender, soaked in CH2Cl2 for phytyl fatty acid esters, days and then filtered.

The solvent was evaporated under vacuum to afford a crude extract oleanolic acid, 86 g) which was chromatographed using increasing proportions of acetone in CH2Cl2 in 10% increments by volume.

The 20% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed using 7.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions were combined and rechromatographed using 7.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford phytyl fatty acid esters, triacylglycerols, mg).

The more polar fractions were combined and rechromatographed using 7.5% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford triacylglycerols, (5 mg).

The 30% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (2 ) using 15% EtOAc in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of alphaamyrin, and beta-amyrin, (6 mg) after washing with petroleum ether.

The 90% acetone in CH2Cl2 fraction was rechromatographed (2 ) using CH3CN:Et2O:CH2Cl2 (0.5:0.5:9, v/v) to afford oleanolic acid, phytyl fatty acid esters, mg) after washing with petroleum ether..

Silica gel chromatography of the dichloromethane extract of the leaves of Duranta erecta yielded 1-4b.

The NMR spectra of oleanolic acid, are in accordance with data reported in the literature for olenolic acid ; alphaamyrin, for alpha-amyrin ; and beta-amyrin, for betaamyrin ; phytyl fatty acid esters, for phytyl fatty acid esters ; and triacylglycerols, for triacylglycerols.

The 3:1 ratio of the mixture of alphaamyrin and beta-amyrin was deduced from the integrations and intensities of the 1H NMR resonances for the olefinic protons of alphaamyrin, at 5.24 (t, J = phytyl fatty acid esters, Hz, H-12) and beta-amyrin, at 5.27 (t, J = phytyl fatty acid esters, Hz, H-12).

. A research grant from the Science Foundation through the University Research Coordination Office of De La Salle University is gratefully acknowledged.