Philippine Journal of Science 138 : 205-209, December 2009 ISSN 0031 7683 Key Words: Carotenoids, Ficus pseudopalma, Ficus ulmifolia, Moreaceae, phytol, polyprenol, sterols, triterpenes *Corresponding author: ragasa@dlsu.edu.ph 205 Terpenoids and Sterols from the Endemic and Endangered Philippine Trees, Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia Consolacion Y. Ragasa,1,* Po-wei Tsai, and Chien-Chang Shen 1Chemistry Department, De La Salle University, 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila 1004, Philippines and Center for Natural Sciences and Ecological Research, De La Salle University 2401 Taft Avenue, 1004 Manila 2National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, 155-1, Li-Nong St., Sec 2, Taipei 112, Taiwan The dichloromethane extract of the air-dried leaves of the endemic and endangered Philippine trees.

Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia afforded squalene, polyprenol, beta-amyrin fatty acid ester, alpha-amyrin acetate and beta-amyrin acetate.

Ficus pseudopalma also yielded lupeol fatty acid ester, lupenone, oleanone, and ursenone, while Ficus ulmifolia also afforded lutein, lupeol acetate, beta-carotene, phytol, alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, sitosterol, and stigmasterol.

Their structures were identified by NMR spectroscopy..

The diversity of Philippine plants is exceptional, however, many have yet to be studied for their chemical constituents.

Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia are endemic and endangered Philippine trees with no reported chemical studies.

Thus, this research was conducted to isolate and identify the dichloromethane soluble secondary metabolites in both trees.

Ficus pseudopalma is a medicinal and ornamental tree found throughout the Philippines.

A decoction of the leaves is used for the treatment of kidney stones and diabetes, while the young shoots are eaten as vegetables (Stuart 2008).

On the other hand, Ficus ulmifolia has no reported medicinal properties.

The hard and rough leaves are used to clean cooking utensils and to scour wood.

The fruits are edible, but has little flavor (Jansen et al. ). We report here the isolation and identification of the dichloromethane soluble constituents of Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia.

Ficus pseudopalma afforded the triterpenes: ursenone , beta-amyrin fatty acid ester , alpha-amyrin acetate , beta-amyrin acetate , oleanone , lupeol fatty acid ester , lupenone , and squalene ; and polyprenol , while Ficus ulmifolia yielded the triterpenes: alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester , alpha-amyrin acetate , -amyrin fatty acid ester , beta-amyrin acetate , lupeol acetate , and squalene ; polyprenol , phytol , beta-carotene , lutein , stigmasterol , and sitosterol (10) (Figure 1).

This is the first report on the isolation of the aforementioned compounds from Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia.

MATERIALS AND METHODS General Experimental Procedures: NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian Unity Inova spectrometer in CDCl at 500 MHz for 1H NMR and 125 MHz for 13C NMR spectra.

Column chromatography was performed with silica gel 60 (70-230 mesh), while the TLC was performed with plastic backed plates coated with silica gel F254.

The plates were visualized with vanillin-H2SO4 and warming.

Research Note Ragasa et al.: Terpenoids and Sterols from Philippine Trees, Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia Philippine Journal of Science Vol.

No. , December 2009 Figure 1. Terpenoids and Sterols from Ficus ulmifolia (1-10) and Ficus pseudopalma (squalene, polyprenol, ).

Plant Material The plant samples were collected from around Lake Buhi, Camarines Sur in September 2007.

They were identified as Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia by Noe Gapas of the Philippine National Museum who also collected the samples.

Ficus pseudopalma (voucher specimen # 132) and Ficus ulmifolia (voucher specimen # 133) were deposited at the Chemistry Department, De La Salle University - Manila.

H R H H R H H R H OH 3 ][ [ ]n CH2OH alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, R = CH3(CH2)nCOO alpha-amyrin acetate, R = OAc ursenone, R = O oleanone, R = O OAc2b R = CH3(CH2)nCOO beta-amyrin fatty acid ester, R = lupenone, R = O OAc3b R = CH3(CH2)nCOO lupeol fatty acid ester, R = squalene, polyprenol, phytol, OH HO beta-carotene, lutein, HH HO H stigmasterol, 10 H HO H H Isolation The dichloromethane extract of the air-dried leaves of Ficus pseudopalma (1 stigmasterol, kg) was chromatographed on a silica gel column using increasing proportions of acetone in dichloromethane at 10% increment.

The 10% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions afforded squalene, after rechromatography in petroleum ether.

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed in 2.5% Ragasa et al.: Terpenoids and Sterols from Philippine Trees, Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia Philippine Journal of Science Vol.

No. , December 2009 207 is alpha to a carbonyl, and a methyl triplet at 0.88 for alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, an acetoxy methyl was detected at 2.01 for alpha-amyrin acetate,

The 13C NMR spectrum for alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, gave resonances for the long chain fatty acid methylene carbons centered at 29 beta-carotene, carbonyl carbon of the ester at 173 beta-carotene, and the methyl carbon at the end of the fatty acid chain at 14.

1.

These resonances for alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, were replaced in alpha-amyrin acetate, by the resonances for the acetoxy carbons at 171.0 and 21.

3.

Ursenone ursenone, oleanone oleanone, and lupenone lupenone, have similar 1H NMR resonances to -amyrin acetate alpha-amyrin acetate, beta-amyrin acetate beta-amyrin acetate, and lupeol acetate lupeol acetate, respectively, except in the regions where their structures differ, e.g., around C-3 where the acetates were replaced by carbonyls.

Thus, the resonances at 2.01 for the acetoxy methyl and squalene, 40 for the oxymethine protons of alpha-amyrin acetate, beta-amyrin acetate, and lupeol acetate, were not found in ursenone, oleanone, and lupenone,

The 13C NMR resonances for the acetoxy carbons at 171.0 and 21.3, and the carbinyl carbon resonances at 80 stigmasterol, for alpha-amyrin acetate, beta-amyrin acetate, and lupeol acetate, were replaced by the carbonyl carbon resonances at 217 stigmasterol, for ursenone, oleanone, and lupenone, (Hisham et al. ; Clen et al. ). Although bioassays were not conducted on the isolated compounds, there were previous studies that reported on their biological activities.

Alpha-Amyrin acetate has been reported to possess hypoglycemic activity (Narrender et al. ), while lupeol exhibited antiurolithiatic and diuretic activity (Vidya et al. ). Alpha-Amyrin acetate may be one of the active constituents in the anti-diabetes property of Ficus pseudopalma.

Lupeol prevented the formation of vesical calculi and reduced the size of the preformed stones in rats (Anand et al. ). This indicates that lupeol may be one of the active constituents in the treatment of kidney stones by Ficus pseudopalma.

Alpha-Amyrin and beta-amyrin were reported to posses anti-inflammatory activity (Recio et al. ; Madeiros et al. ), while alpha-amyrin, beta-amyrin, and the 3-O-acyl derivatives of alpha-amyrin and -amyrin exhibited analgesic property (Otuki et al. ; Soldi et al. ). Squalene significantly suppresses colonic ACF formation and crypt multiplicity.

This strengthens the hypothesis that squalene possesses chemopreventive activity against colon carcinogenesis (Rao et al. ). Squalene has cardioprotective effect which is related to inhibition of lipid accumulation by its hypolipidemic properties and/or its antioxidant properties (Farvin et al. ). Lutein and zeaxanthin may have roles in protecting against age-related macular degeneration (Mozaffarieh et al. ). Beta-Sitosterol has been shown to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in human solid tumors such as colon and breast cancers (Park et al. ). Stigmasterol lowers plasma cholesterol levels, inhibits intestinal cholesterol and plant sterol absorption, and suppresses hepatic cholesterol and classic bile acid synthesis in Winstar as well as WKY rats (Batta et al. ). A polyprenol from the ethanol extract of Coccinia ethyl acetate in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions afforded a mixture of ursenone, oleanone, and lupenone, followed by a mixture of beta-amyrin fatty acid ester, and lupeol fatty acid ester,

The more polar fractions were rechromatographed in 5% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to yield a mixture of alpha-amyrin acetate, and beta-amyrin acetate, from the less polar fractions, while polyprenol, was obtained from the more polar fractions.

The dichloromethane extract of the air-dried leaves of Ficus ulmifolia (742 g) was chromatographed on a silica gel column using increasing proportions of acetone in dichloromethane at 10% increment.

The 10% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in petroleum ether.

The less polar fractions afforded squalene, and beta-carotene, The more polar fractions were rechromatographed by gradient elution technique.

The column was first eluted with 2.5% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of alpha-amyrin acetate, beta-amyrin acetate, and lupeol acetate, followed by 5% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford a mixture of alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, and beta-amyrin fatty acid ester,

The 20% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in 10% ethyl acetate in petroleum ether to afford polyprenol, The 40% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in dichloromethane to afford phytol, The 50% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in dichloromethane:diethyl ether:acetonitrile (8:1:1) to afford a mixture of stigmasterol, and 10 after washing with petroleum ether.

The 60% acetone in dichloromethane fraction was rechromatographed in dichloromethane:diethyl ether: acetonitrile (8:1:1) to afford lutein, after washing with petroleum ether, then diethyl ether..

The dichloromethane extracts of the air-dried leaves of Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia afforded terpenoids and sterols by silica gel chromatography.

These compounds were identified by comparison of their 13C NMR spectral data with those of -amyrin fatty acid ester alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester, (Menezes et al. ), beta-amyrin fatty acid ester beta-amyrin fatty acid ester, (Menezes et al. ; Wang 2007; Barreiros et al. ), beta-amyrin acetate beta-amyrin acetate, (Derome 1987), lupeol fatty acid ester lupeol fatty acid ester, (Wang 2007), lupeol acetate lupeol acetate, (Derome 1987), squalene squalene, (Brown & Martens 1977), polyprenol polyprenol, (Rideout et al. ), phytol phytol, (Ragasa et al. ), lutein beta-carotene, (Largo et al. ), beta-carotene lutein, stigmasterol stigmasterol, and sitosterol 10 (Cayme and Ragasa 2004) reported in the literature.

The structure of alpha-amyrin acetate alpha-amyrin acetate, was deduced by comparison of its 1H NMR and 13C NMR spectral data with those of alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester alpha-amyrin fatty acid ester,

Instead of the long chain fatty acid at 1.25 for the methylene protons, a methylene triplet at 2.30 which Ragasa et al.: Terpenoids and Sterols from Philippine Trees, Ficus pseudopalma and Ficus ulmifolia Philippine Journal of Science Vol.

No. , December 2009 208 grandis showed significant triglyceride and cholesterol lowering effects in dyslipidemic hamster model (Singh et al. ). ACKNOWLEDGMENT A research grant from the University Research Coordination Office and the Science Foundation of De La Salle University is gratefully acknowledged.

The plant samples were collected by Noe Gapas of the Philippine National Museum.